add writeup for project milestone 1 (#4)
davidd-55/sNNake: index.md

## Project Update #1

### Software Details:

As a component of the literature review, each member of our group attempted to clone and run various snake game implementations capable of training a single agent to play the game (see above). Based on our findings, we selected the implementation that best matched the following traits:

- Code base is clearly commented and cleanly written
- Code base written in Python 3
- Implementation contained easily modifiable game board/logic rules
- Implementation contained a genetic NN component for training
- Implementation contained a framework for easily expanding existing NN capabilities

> With these key features in  mind, we have decided to base our project on *[AI for Snake Game](https://craighaber.github.io/AI-for-Snake-Game/website_files/index.html)* written by [Craig Haber](https://github.com/craighaber). This project is well-written, easily extensible, and we have already made modifications that allow for training to run on the Pomona server. The original repository can be found [here](https://github.com/craighaber/AI-for-Snake-Game), and our fork can be found at [sNNakeCode](https://github.com/jackdavidweber/sNNakeCode).

Reviewer: Nice!

#### Data Details:

Since this project leverages the use of a genetic neural network (GNN), training is initialized with a random set of parameters that are fine-tuned over the specified training course. 

> Thus, we will not require an initial dataset for this project. Rather, we aim to explore how different networks perform when training is initialized with a random parameter set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, we will not require an initial dataset for this project. Rather, we will generate data through simulation and experiment with how different networks perform.
```

#### Project Details:

> As described in the Software Details section, the *AI for Snake Game* project we are building on includes a fully-funtional GNN capable of training an agent to play the snake game. Our details below reflect the implementation of this network, but we fully intend to implement and compare multiple networks' performance over the course of this project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As described in the Software Details section, the *AI for Snake Game* project we are building on includes a fully-funtional GNN capable of training an agent to play the snake game. Our details below reflect the implementation of this network, but we fully intend to implement and compare multiple networks' performance over the course of this project. We also plan to make changes to the information and incentives that the agent is presented with
```

    - Crossover: The algorithm mixes characteristics of each relatively successful parent agent to create a new child agent
    - Mutation: The algorithm randomly mutates aspects of the child agent's characteristics in order to prevent training stagnation

    After the above steps are performed, the GA creates a set consisting of the top 50% of agents from the initial population and the newly generated child population and propogates them to the following training epoch. This process repeats for a specified number of epochs that each contain gameplay for a specified number of unique agents.

- NN Input Details:
    - The [Manhattan distance](https://xlinux.nist.gov/dads/HTML/manhattanDistance.html) between the snake agent's head and the game board fruit
    - Available space on the grid in each of the four available directions (left, right, up, down) from the snake agent's head
    - The current length of the snake agent

- NN Ouput Details: 
    - This network has four outputs (representing the four available movement directions) ranging in value from 0 to 1 where
    - The snake agent will move in the direction of the output with the highest associated value

> 

Reviewer: Is any of this writing copied directly from the original repo? If so, just make sure to add direct quotes. Regardless, it might be nice to add a little blurb at the end of this section that a lot of the information is coming from his website.

Author: None is directly copied, but good idea on adding a direct reference to our boi Craig
